In this lesson, I'd like to talk about multiple levels of reactivity.
What I mean by that is having computed functions that depend on objects returned by other computed functions.
So what this allows us to do is to have this domino effect throughout our program, where we begin with
a change in one location, with one reactive object, and that change spreads to somewhere else.
And then that triggers another update to a third object somewhere else.
So we can create a whole chain of reactivity, a chain of dependencies, so that the beginning change
triggers all these subsequent changes in a row.
Let me show you what I mean.
Here I have the code from the previous lesson where we are dynamically creating this concatenated string
of firstname.
Last name the great based on my person reactive object.
So what if I wanted the reactive length of my title string or to be more specific, the title value?
So what I mean by that is whenever we have this string and an update, I want to recalculate the length
of this string and store it in some kind of constant in my program.
So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to say title length, and I'm going to once again use the computed function.
And we know that we passed it a arrow function.
So I'm going to pass it in arrow function here.
And this will rerun whenever anything in the internals of the arrow function changes.
So what do I want to track here?
What change do I want to track?
Well, I want to track whenever title changes.
Right.
So if I look at title titles, going to be my reactive object right here.
And what I can look at is its value property, which will be this concatenated string.
And furthermore, what I actually want is the length of this string.
And so I can attach the length property on a string in JavaScript, and that will give me the length.
Now, by itself, if I just used Title II that length and assigned it to title length, it would only
perform the logic once.
But because I've wrapped it in this arrow function inside computed, it will actually re-evaluate whenever
the title object's value property changes.
So in other words, whenever we change the person properties right here that will cascade or affect
this function right here because it will rerun because a person property has changed that it cares about.
And then because this title length knows the track, the value of the title reactive object that we
get here.
As soon as this string changes, then this computed function will rerun giving us the latest length.
Okay, so let me show you this in action I'm going to console.log title length, dot value.
Remember, the computed function is going to give us a reactive object with a value property.
So we can't just output title length to get the length we need to add on that value.
So if I execute this file, we can see that it's going to be 25.
I'm actually going to change the property here from Peter to Napoleon.
The only reason I'm going to do this is because Peter actually has the exact same length as Boris,
so we would have no way of confirming whether our code actually worked.
But I am going to change it to something like Napoleon.
And that's going to be our first name property.
So again, what's going to happen is Vue is going to rerun this function.
It's now going to get Napoleon passed over the great as the string.
And then because this function is keeping track of title, this is going to rerun and get the new string
length of Napoleon passing over the great.
So once again, we can see now I actually forgot to put the value of title length that value below rookie
error.
I apologize.
Let me add that here and rerun the file.
And now we can see it has changed to 28, right?
Because Napoleon adds three more letters to the length and same concept applies when we change the last
name property on the person object.
So we're going to change the last name to Griffin.
This will rerun.
It's going to give us a new title, which forces this to rerun and give us a new length.
And if I put this console.log title length, my reactive object and its value property, we're now going
to have a new length of 26.
So you can see here that the computed function and what it's tracking can depend on other reactive objects
that come from computer functions.
And there's no limit to this.
We can have something that depends on title length and calculates its own reactive value as a result.
Right.
This is similar to ideas that are possible in Google sheets.
We can track changes in one cell and have it reverberate or reflect in another cell and then have another
cell track that cell and update as well.
We can continue layering this multiple steps down and we can continue or emulate the same idea in view.
The only important thing to remember, of course, is that we still have to wrap each of those new computations
in the computed function because that is the actual view functionality that enables us to keep track
of those changes.
Just because title is a reactive object with a value property does not mean we can do something like
this.
This will not work.
This is just going to give us a one time value.
Or whatever it happens to be at that moment in time during the program's execution.
If you want it to automatically recalculate, just like those cells in Google sheets, you have to wrap
the logic in a function that you pass to the computed function from the View Library.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.